---
originalTitle: Career Benefits
translationStatus: ❌
---

Your career describes what your life was before you became a hero. When you select a career, you gain a number of benefits, the details of which are specified in the career's description.

#### Skills

Each career grants you two or three skills, detailed in the [Skills](#page-268-0) section of Chapter 9: Tests.

#### Languages

Some careers allow you to learn extra languages, chosen from those available in [Languages in Orden](#page-70-0) above.

#### Renown

Some careers increase your starting Renown score (from a base score of 0). See [Renown](#page-364-6) in [Chapter 13: Rewards](#page-327-1) for more information.

#### Wealth

Some careers increase your starting Wealth score (from a base score of 1). See [Wealth](#page-365-0) in [Chapter 13: Rewards](#page-327-1) for more information.

#### Project Points

Some careers provide project points you can put toward crafting and research projects (see [Chapter 12: Downtime Projects](#page-307-2)). These project points can be divided among multiple projects, but they can't be used more than once. You must meet the other prerequisites for a project to start it, as usual.

At the Director's discretion, your career might also let you start the game with the materials needed for one or more projects, so you can immediately put your project points toward those projects—possibly before the adventure begins! This is especially useful for characters who are going on only one adventure. Otherwise, you can hold onto the points and spend them once you do start a project.

#### Perk

Your career provides you with a specific type of perk—a special feature that lets you customize your character, with a focus outside of combat. See [Chapter 7: Perks](#page-241-0) for more information.