---
originalTitle: Using Culture
translationStatus: ❌
---

What makes a hero? Is their desire to stand up for the innocent and protect others somehow innate? Are they born knowing that tyrants must fall? Does a higher power instill the idea that sometimes those least deserving of compassion are those who need it most?

No. A hero's life experience and background make them what they are. That background starts with the culture in which a hero was raised, and is threaded through the career that led them to a life of adventuring.

## Culture

A hero's culture describes the beliefs, customs, values, and way of life held by the community in which they were raised. This community provides life experiences that give a character some of their game statistics. Even if a hero doesn't share their culture's values, those values shaped their early development and way of life. In fact, some people become heroes primarily from the rejection of the ways of their culture.

For our purposes, a hero's culture represents people, not a place. Yes, you might have grown up in the great city of Capital, but your culture is more specific than that. One hero's culture might be House Alvaro, a noble house in Capital where they were raised. Another's culture could be a group or organization that moves around, such as a band of pirates or a secret order of sorcerers sworn to protect books of fell magic. It helps to get specific when thinking about your culture, and working with the four aspects of a culture can help you do that: **language**, **environment**, **organization**, and **upbringing**.

## Using Culture

Directors can use the rules in this section to build cultures that players can choose for their characters. Players can use these rules to build a unique culture or modify an existing culture for their character, working with the Director to find the right place for that culture within the world of the campaign.

In many worlds, at least some cultures have a majority ancestry. The people of Bedegar, a duchy in the region of Vasloria on Orden, are mostly humans. The folk dwelling in the Great Wode, a forest realm north of Bedegar, are primarily wode elves. However, you can always choose to be from one of these cultures and take a different ancestry. A dwarf raised in the culture of the Great Wode speaks Yllyric and probably knows a lot about nature, while a dwarf raised in the dwarf thanedom of Kal Kalavar speaks Zaliac and might know a good deal about smithing.

You can build your culture one aspect at a time, or you can use the following tables if you want to assess sample cultures or make your own culture quickly. To create an archetypical culture for a hero who grew up surrounded mostly by other members of their ancestry, use or modify the aspect options on the Typical Ancestry Cultures table. (Revenants are missing from this table because they don't gain their ancestry until after they die.) If you'd rather quickly create a culture based on a cultural archetype, such as a noble house or a pirate crew, use the Archetypical Cultures table, then add a language that fits the culture's concept.

###### Typical Ancestry Cultures Table

| Ancestry      | Language    | Environment | Organization | Upbringing |
| ------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------ | ---------- |
| Devil         | Anjali      | Urban       | Bureaucratic | Academic   |
| Dragon knight | Vastariax   | Secluded    | Bureaucratic | Martial    |
| Dwarf         | Zaliac      | Secluded    | Bureaucratic | Creative   |
| Wode elf      | Yllyric     | Wilderness  | Bureaucratic | Martial    |
| High elf      | Hyrallic    | Secluded    | Bureaucratic | Martial    |
| Hakaan        | Vhoric      | Rural       | Communal     | Labor      |
| Human         | Vaslorian   | Urban       | Communal     | Labor      |
| Memonek       | Axiomatic   | Nomadic     | Communal     | Academic   |
| Orc           | Kalliak     | Wilderness  | Communal     | Creative   |
| Polder        | Khoursirian | Urban       | Communal     | Creative   |
| Time raider   | Voll        | Nomadic     | Communal     | Martial    |

###### Archetypical Cultures Table

| Community              | Environment | Organization | Upbringing |
| ---------------------- | ----------- | ------------ | ---------- |
| Artisan guild          | Urban       | Bureaucratic | Creative   |
| Borderland homestead   | Wilderness  | Communal     | Labor      |
| College conclave       | Urban       | Bureaucratic | Academic   |
| Criminal gang          | Urban       | Communal     | Lawless    |
| Farming village        | Rural       | Bureaucratic | Labor      |
| Herding community      | Nomadic     | Communal     | Labor      |
| Knightly order         | Secluded    | Bureaucratic | Martial    |
| Laborer neighborhood   | Urban       | Communal     | Labor      |
| Mercenary band         | Nomadic     | Bureaucratic | Martial    |
| Merchant caravan       | Nomadic     | Bureaucratic | Creative   |
| Monastic order         | Secluded    | Bureaucratic | Academic   |
| Noble house            | Urban       | Bureaucratic | Noble      |
| Outlaw band            | Wilderness  | Communal     | Lawless    |
| Pirate crew            | Nomadic     | Communal     | Lawless    |
| Telepathic hive        | Secluded    | Communal     | Creative   |
| Traveling entertainers | Nomadic     | Communal     | Creative   |
