---
translationStatus: ❌
originalTitle: Ancestries
---

Fantastic peoples inhabit the worlds of *Draw Steel*. Among them are devils, dwarves, elves, time raiders—and of course humans, whose culture and history dominates many worlds.

Your hero is one of these folks! The fantastic ancestry you choose bestows benefits that come from your anatomy and physiology. This choice doesn't grant you cultural benefits, such as crafting or lore skills, though. While many game settings have cultures made of mostly one ancestry, other cultures and worlds have a cosmopolitan mix of peoples.

In *Draw Steel*, ancestry describes how you were born. Culture (part of [Chapter 4: Background](#page-67-0)) describes how you grew up. If you want to be a wode elf who was raised in a forest among other wode elves, you can do that! If you want to play a wode elf who was raised in an underground city of dwarves, humans, and orcs, you can do that too!

This chapter details twelve ancestries for the game:

**Devil:** Devils originated in the Seven Cities of Hell and have a supernatural charisma that helps them persuade others. They are similar in stature to humans, and their skin tones include deep blues, purples, and reds. They sport horns, eyes of all shades (including gold and red), and tails, and some have feathered or leathery wings.

**Dragon Knight:** Dragon knights are muscled draconic humanoids who stand between 6 and 7 feet tall. The scales covering their reptilian heads, bodies, and tails can be almost any color. All dragon knights have wings, but on only a few are those wings big enough to let them fly.

**Dwarf:** Humanoids with stony skin, dwarves have short and stout bodies. Many carve supernatural runes into their flesh, and some have beards made of crystals.

**Wode Elf:** Lithe humanoids with finely furred skin in all shades of blue, wode elves have angular features and large, pointed ears akin to a bat's. They possess a supernatural glamor that allows them to blend in with their surroundings when they wish to hide.

**High Elf:** Stately and graceful, high elves have tall, willowy bodies, pointed ears, and smoother skin than most other humanoids. Rare metal inlays such as gold, platinum, palladium, and iridium act as organic components within their skin. The truest form of any high elf is hidden from most—sometimes even from themself—thanks to a supernatural glamor that makes them more attractive to others, whatever that might mean to an individual. This glamor transcends physical appearance, also slightly altering a high elf's tone and smell.

**Hakaan:** Descended from stone giants, the mighty hakaan stand over 9 feet tall and have well-muscled bodies made of organic stone. They are the largest ancestry in this book!

**Human:** Humans are the most numerous people in Orden and many other fantasy worlds! In *Draw Steel*, humans have all the diversity that our species displays in real life—and they can sense the presence of supernatural energy!

**Memonek:** Originating on Axiom, the Plane of Uttermost Law, memonek are a machine people made of metal, marble, glass, and other inorganic materials. Their bodies are lightweight, making them easier to move and letting them fall at slower speeds.

**Orc:** Orcs have skin in green tones and stand slightly taller and wider than humans. A supernatural energy they call "the blood fire" flows through their veins, igniting colorful lines in an orc's skin during life-or-death battles.

**Polder:** The smallest of the ancestries in this book, polders stand no taller than 3-1/2 feet. They look like smaller humans, and they have the ability to blend in with the shadows.

**Revenant:** No hero starts their life as a revenant. Rather, these undead creatures return to the world of the living because they have dire business that must be finished. A character of any ancestry can become a revenant.

**Time Raider:** Travelers of the timescape, the time raiders (or kuran'zoi as they call themselves) have four arms and a single ocular sensor instead of a pair of eyes. Many have innate psionic abilities that make them capable warriors.

<!-- -->
> **Other Sections**
>
> The rules for using ancestries refer to lots of other parts of the game. You can find information on specific topics as follows:
>
> Edges and banes, Recoveries, respites: [Chapter 1: The Basics](#page-17-3)
>
> Languages: [Chapter 4: Background](#page-67-0)
>
> Abilities, conditions, potencies, saving throws, surges: [Chapter 5: Classes](#page-83-2)
>
> Skills, tests: Chapter 9: Tests
>
> Crafting projects: [Chapter 12: Downtime Projects](#page-307-2)
>
> Main actions and maneuvers, creature size, damage and Stamina, dying and death, flanking, movement and forced movement, winded: [Chapter 10: Combat](#page-288-0)