---
originalTitle: On the Origin of Species
translationStatus: ❌
---
Orden (talked about in Chapter 1: The Basics) is a fantasy world. It works on principles similar to those many people throughout history believed governed the real world. "I dunno, a god did it probably."

Humans, elves, orcs, dwarves, dragons, all have creator gods—the Elder Gods, four of whom made the world for some reason. Maybe they were bored.

The fashion among those gods for creating new, intelligent, species petered out after the orcs. Once humans came along and invented war, it stopped being fun.

It may be all species were created by gods. That's certainly what a lot of people throughout our own history assumed. Orden has no Darwin and probably won't ever. There's still inheritance. People expect children to look like their parents, but there aren't evolutionary pressures except on a very local scale.

And in a world where powerful, world-altering magics are available, mortals sometimes try to recreate the gods' efforts. Some succeed, and new intelligent, speaking peoples are born.

However, mortals are not gods and lack their ineffable wisdom. They are, in fact, very effable. Many have sought the power to create. It is available to any sorcerer of near-godlike power with the right rituals, though these days that power is very obscure. Creating new intelligent species was easier for mortal wizards back in the youth of the world when magic was friskier.

In every instance in recorded history, attempts by mortals to make obedient servitor species backfired. The steel dwarves worked marvels with valiar, the truemetal, and the miracle mineral iridoss, known as prismacore, that grants objects a semblance of life. Eventually their science and magics produced the omnivok—machines that were self-aware. Perhaps uniquely, when the dwarves realized they had created beings equal to themselves they stopped their work and gave their creations full rights and independence, preferring to work with them rather than attempt, and inevitably fail, to be their masters.

Normally, it doesn't work out that nicely. Even with the best of intentions, things go awry. The Dragon Phalanx were created by Good King Omund's wizard Vitae to be the perfect knights, dispensing justice throughout the lands. But the same sorceries that grant self-awareness also grant independence. Agency. And though they enjoyed 30 years of peace and justice, eventually the dragon knights were betrayed by one of their own, seduced by the power offered by Ajax.

The law of unintended consequences applies to the just and the unjust alike.

Usually when some powerful being tries to create an intelligent species, it's for less-than-virtuous reasons. The synliroi are responsible for several intelligent species in the timescape, each an attempt to create a perfectly obedient servitor species. The most notorious example are the kuran'zoi—the time raiders who rebelled almost immediately and who carry a burning hate for the voiceless talkers to this day.

A perhaps less egregious use of this power is called *quickening*, used when a powerful mage lives in and amongst some clever species just on the cusp of self-awareness. These instances, which are much more numerous than creating a new species from whole cloth, are more like the concept of *uplifting* found in science fiction. The mage or witch or shaman didn't create anything. They just gave these cute, clever, frog-things a little boost. A little nudge. And suddenly there are angulotls walking around having conversations with each other,

wondering when someone will invent a fabric that doesn't get moldy in the swamp.

This also carries serious ethical repercussions! "You didn't create angulotls! You screwed up some perfectly good frogs! Look at them, you gave them anxiety!"

This is only how it works on Orden. You may have completely different explanations for why there are several different intelligent species walking around in your world. Or no explanation! Or competing and irreconcilable theories on the matter! Use whatever inspires you.

At the end of the day, if you throw out all of this and replace it with something you made up, it will be better. Because it's *yours*!