---
originalTitle: Names by Ancestry
translationStatus: ❌
---
Obviously you're free to invent whatever name you want for your character! And your director might have their own setting that uses different cultures than those in Orden. But if you want to pick an Orden-appropriate name for your hero, keep reading.

Equally obviously; names are cultural, not biological. Your character probably has a name appropriate to whatever culture they were born into, or grew up in. A human raised by hakaan would probably have a hakaan name.

#### Last Names and Bynames

Most people living in Orden—and this is especially true of Vasloria live in villages. They do not have and do not use last names or family names. Everyone in the village knows who you mean when you refer to "William." Even if there's more than one William in the village, you can usually tell who someone's referring to from context. Sometimes folks prepend "our" to someone's name meaning: the one related to or otherwise concerned with me and my family. "Our William" for instance.

If that's not enough, folks use another identifier known as a byname. If there were two boys in the village named Much, one of them might be called Much the Miller's Son, to distinguish them from the other lad.

If you leave your village regularly, say to trade with others in a distant market, then your byname might be the place you're from. Alan from the village in the dale, might become known as Alan from the Dale, or even Alan-a-Dale. But everyone back home just calls you Alan.

A byname might refer to your profession. Clyde the Cartwright is a perfectly normal byname. But no one you met would assume "Cartwright" was your 'family name.' People who live permanently in a very large city like Capital use family names, because almost no first name is sufficiently unique to identify you, and "Marissa the Cartwright's Daughter" quickly evolves into Marissa Cartwright.

Most nobles in Orden also use the name of the area they rule as part of their name. When someone refers to Lord Edmund Bedegar everyone listening silently, without thinking about it, adds "of" between the name and the place. Edmund is both Edmund, and the Lord of Bedegar, and Edmund, Lord of Bedegar, and therefore sometimes Lord Edmund Bedegar. Even though "Bedegar" looks like a "last name" to us, and is being used in that manner sometimes, it's not exactly his last name. It's still just another kind of byname.

Unlike remote villages, well settled areas where many towns and villages are all networked by roads often do use surnames to help differentiate one William from the other twenty within a densely populated area.

#### Names and Gender

Most cultures in Vasloria make a distinction between masculine and feminine names, though not all do. And for some cultures that make such a distinction, almost no one outside the culture can tell the difference.

Among those cultures which do make a distinction between masculine and feminine names, there are always names that *could* refer to a person of any gender. Here in the real world, you can't tell a person's gender just from the name "Shane." This is mostly because which names are considered masculine or feminine changes over time, and when this happens, there's a period—maybe a few generations—where the name could refer to a person of any gender.

Of course, there's no law (neither metaphorically nor literally) that requires your character to go by their birth name. They might not even know their birth name depending on what happened after they were born. It's not unusual, especially among talents, for a hero to adopt a moniker or sobriquet instead of a name. And in some cultures, there's a tradition of changing your name—or at least how you prefer to be known—as you go through different stages of life. High elves sometimes adopt a wholly new name when they reach a certain age, or more commonly, they choose a different component of their name. When A Mist Curls Around Dying Embers was a young woman, she was known as Mist. Now that she's the master of the Tower of Translation, she's known as Embers.

#### Authentic or Comedic?

For some players choosing a "good name"-by which they mean "authentic to the setting"-is important and can take a while. Because the right name can ground a character in the world, and this can help the player feel more immersed in the fictional reality. It also communicates to the other players that you're serious about the game and your hero.

For other players, choosing a comedic, joke name communicates the opposite! You are here to have fun and screw around and taking things seriously is something you already have to do all week, and so you pick a ridiculous name just to get a laugh because that's what you're serious about.

The choice of name is an important one, because it says a lot about you and how you view the game as a whole.

#### Example Names By Ancestry

##### Devil Names

**Feminine:** Ampeth, Arrian, Cyrrik, Frissia, Illya, Oreth, Quallo, Uryalia, Yllioth, Zorri

**Gender Neutral:** Halciar, Illion, Karya, Moriel, Orliath

**Masculine:** Bulliarvik, Cenoph, Dhult, Jjaro, Kuryalkin, Radiarsk, Tessiar, Turayvik, Ullian, Villyroth

##### Dragon Knight Names

**Feminine:** Ahrijiinad, Cyrrijox, Kaikorrivar, Kalliarx, Korazajaan, Korovaamijax, Orrizarviox, Uriquexicaar, Ythirix, Zoronivaam

**Gender Neutral:** Baiqadrazaar, Ciniceziar, Lorikorivox, Vinkarijaan, Zaikorojax

**Masculine:** Aarkizovar, Dannorax, Denoxavinaax, Killexiriax, Koraavinam, Raijorozaan, Vanazor, Vorokazinaar, Zakaarior, Zexijorovox

##### Dwarf Names

**Feminine:** Dazria, Dekka, Djorva, Giria, Kirza, Kuroth, Lurza, Uur, Zareth, Ziir

**Gender Neutral:** Arzak, Keth, Orikk, Q'ir, Qoroth

**Masculine:** Darzok, Dazran, Djorek, Durok, Duur, Gavok, Kaaz, Kazaan, Zaar, Zarek

##### Wode Elf Names

Elves in general have a casual attitude toward gender, it having no direct bearing on procreation for them. (Normal elf upon learning how humans mate: "You mean... like animals?") They tend to view the various sex-linked traits associated among other ancestries with masculinity or femininity as a kind of fashion to be taken up or discarded as the mood suits. Over one life, any elf might wear masculine features, or feminine features, or both, many times. For wode elves, this often means adopting a new name, or a different version of the same name. Llyandros might become Llyandra for instance.

**Feminine:** Elvyr, Eviarwyc, Illwyv, Iorwyth, Lliarwyn, Meithennyn, Nimuë, Rhegyth, Viarwyn, Ysallwyth

**Gender Neutral:** Arriswyth, Gogellwyc, Hygglwyc, Lliarion, Tywso

**Masculine:** Calliarwyc, Cillyv, Eidior, Ffyllwyc, Gwyllmach, Llyandros, Ogllvar, Radiarwyn, Ryll, Tafirdwyn

##### High Elf Names

High elf names are poetic. They are an attempt to capture a fleeting, often contradictory, impulse, or emotion. They sometimes contain references to the natural world. They are never meant to be taken literally and they are not an attempt to make a character feel heroic.

**Examples:** The Anticipation of a Sigh Upon His Lips, A Crown of Starlight on Winter Snow, The Earth Cries the Skies Divide, Echoes of Autumn Heat, Edges of a Leaf Torn by the Wind, Every Flake of Snow a Memory, A Heart That Will Not Yield the Stars, The Last Star Fading With Morning, A Rain of Glass Over a Sea of Dreams, The Sun Reflected in a Lover's Tear

##### Hakaan Names

**Feminine:** Adrina, Arawanni, Barsina, Irdabava, Kiandot, Mavané, Osorabi, Sitarey, Tyriti, Ulivesh

**Gender Neutral:** Adaska, Kirashev, Oriamos, Sandauka, Ulion

**Masculine:** Adusiya, Artabānu, Dahyu, Farnaspa, Fravartiš, Jamaspa, Khosrau, Kithara, Sarames, Utana

##### Western Vasloria Human Names

Human names vary widely by culture. The following examples are from Western Vasloria.

**Feminine:** Brenwyn, Demelza, Elzbeth, Gwynhyvyr, Maerwyn, Margaret, Meliora, Rowenna, Tamara, Wenna

**Gender Neutral:** Ashley, Bryn, Jennet, Morgan, Taran

**Masculine:** Brys, Cadwyr, Dyfan, Edmund, Geoffrey, Gwiddon, Heden, Richard, Taegan, Taethan

##### Memonek Names

**Feminine:** Abandhaska, Ashariyaa, Devidayya, Gandahraji, Kunismyya, Priyaptaa, Ruthudeva, Urivashii, Vanarishka, Yashovalla

**Gender Neutral:** Jamiattra, Lotarhixa, Mitterirtra, Sattayarit, Talyana

**Masculine:** Ayabaskha, Dhamayana, Divarsotto, Duruvatta, Ghaurdamatta, Harakshathra, Khasimandru, Khavettra, Virabanu, Vittarkoya

##### Orc Names

**Feminine:** Askilli, Dorviath, Jeddoar, Karoskha, Khorisa, Khorva, Moraska, Vakarra, Vhorovi, Zhorva

**Gender Neutral:** Dorokor, Gorovik, Khettovek, Meadior, Orosk

**Masculine:** Dezovor, Dhorovek, Djorvok, Korjok, Medozoar, Pakadrask, Rojak, Rokore, Uvarsk, Vordokov

##### Polder Names

For reasons not well understood, polders in Vasloria use surnames. First names seem chosen to imply a degree of sophistication (or, at least, what polders consider sophisticated) while last names are typically common, compound words. No one knows why they do this.

**Feminine:** Agatha, Amaryllis, Beverly, Esmerelda, Marceline, Modesty, Penelope, Rosemarie, Ursula, Weatherly

**Gender Neutral:** Bellamy, Bethell, Carrington, Madison, Mallory

**Masculine:** Aimsley, Alderson, Bancroft, Beechwood, Billingsworth, Broderick, Langston, Owlswick, Patterson, Willoughby

**Surnames:** Bottlebrush, Bracegirdle, Cheesewright, Cobblestone, Cordwainer, Lamplighter, Pinwhistle, Thistlethrush, Twobuckle, Underhill

##### Revenant Names

Revenants most often keep whatever names they had in life. They may have any number of reasons to adopt a new name in which case that name would reflect their reasons for doing so. Perhaps they adopt a moniker like many talents do, or they choose a new name from their original culture, or something completely different!

##### Time Raider Names

Kuran'zoi names typically end with an epithet, given when the young time raider comes of age, that reflects their uniquely rebellious nature.

**Feminine:** Ak'karatar, Ip'pritt, Ner'radmok, Orov'vika, Phe'kala, Quix'x, Thes'srika, Thos'sivik, Um'manri, Vir'rikin

**Gender Neutral:** Jorut'or, Morp'phan, Mot'tira, Sonit'ir, Thir'rip

**Masculine:** Astro'ogor, Dak'kara, Ik'koq, Jel'lek, Kes'slik, Laz'zir, Mav'vikek, Thork'kar, Uv'vik, Va'antak

**Epithet:** The Acerbic, the Cynic, the Heretic, the Impious, the Irritant, the Skeptical, the Sneering, the Surly, the Unbeliever, the Unruly