---
originalTitle: Maneuvers
translationStatus: ❌
---
A maneuver typically involves less focus and exertion than a main action (see below). It can be an opportunity to move other creatures, drink a potion, or undertake similar activities.

Sometimes you might not have anything you can do with your maneuver. That's totally fine! Often, the best thing to do on your turn is take a main action and move on.

#### Помочь в Атаке (Aid Attack) 

A creature who uses the Aid Attack maneuver chooses an enemy adjacent to them. The next ability roll an ally makes against that enemy before the start of the aiding creature's next turn gains an edge.

#### Перевести Дыхание (Catch Breath)

A creature who uses the Catch Breath maneuver spends a Recovery and regains Stamina equal to their recovery value. (See below for [Stamina.](#page-291-0) See [Recoveries](#page-21-3) in [Chapter 1: The Basics](#page-17-3).)

A creature who is dying (see [Dying and Death](#page-292-1) in [Stamina](#page-291-0) below) can't use the Catch Breath maneuver, but other creatures can help them spend Recoveries in other ways.

#### Выбраться из Захвата (Escape Grab)

A creature who is grabbed by another creature, an object, or an effect (see [Grab](#page-287-5) below) can attempt to escape by using the following ability.

###### Escape Grab

| **-**       | **Maneuver** |
| ----------- | -----------: |
| **📏 Self** |  **🎯 Self** |

**Power Roll + Might or Agility:**

- **≤11:** No effect.
- **12-16:** You can escape the grab, but if you do, a creature who has you grabbed can make a melee free strike against you before you are no longer grabbed.
- **17+:** You are no longer grabbed.

**Effect:** You take a bane on this maneuver if your size is smaller than the size of the creature, object, or effect that has you grabbed.

See [Conditions](#page-91-2) in [Chapter 5: Classes](#page-83-2) for information on the grabbed condition.

#### Захват (Grab)

A creature seeking to keep a foe close and locked down can attempt to grab a creature using the following ability.

###### Grab

| **Melee, Weapon** |        **Maneuver** |
| ----------------- | ------------------: |
| **📏 Melee 1**    | **🎯 One creature** |

**Power Roll + Might:**

- **≤11:** No effect.
- **12-16:** You can grab the target, but if you do, the target can make a melee free strike against you before they are grabbed.
- **17+:** The target is grabbed by you.

**Effect:** You can usually target only creatures of your size or smaller. If your Might score is 2 or higher, you can target any creature with a size equal to or less than your Might score.

Unless otherwise indicated, a creature can grab only one creature at a time.

See [Conditions](#page-91-2) in [Chapter 5: Classes](#page-83-2) for information on the grabbed condition.

#### Спрятаться (Hide)

Using the Hide maneuver, a creature attempts to hide from other creatures who aren't observing them while they have cover or concealment. See Hide and Sneak in Chapter 9: Tests for full details.

#### Оттолкнуть (Knockback)

A creature wanting to push an adjacent creature away from them can attempt to shove that creature using the following ability.

###### Knockback

| **Melee, Weapon** |        **Maneuver** |
| ----------------- | ------------------: |
| **📏 Melee 1**    | **🎯 One creature** |

**Power Roll + Might:**

- **≤11:** Push 1
- **12-16:** Push 2
- **17+:** Push 3

**Effect:** You can usually target only creatures of your size or smaller. If your Might score is 2 or higher, you can target any creature with a size equal to or less than your Might score.

#### Совершить/Помочь в Проверке (Make or Assist a Test)

Many tests are maneuvers if made in combat. Searching a chest with a Reason test, picking a door's lock with an Agility test, or lifting a portcullis with a Might test would all be maneuvers. Assisting a test is also a maneuver in combat (see Assist a Test in Chapter 9: Tests).

Complex or time-consuming tests might require a main action if made in combat—or could take so long that they can't be made during combat at all. Other tests that take no time at all, such as a Reason test to recall lore about mummies, are usually free maneuvers in combat. The Director has the final say regarding which tests can be made as maneuvers.

#### Поиск Спрятанных Существ (Search for Hidden Creatures)

The Search for Hidden Creatures maneuver allows a creature to attempt to locate creatures hidden from them (see Hide and Sneak in Chapter 9: Tests).

#### Встать (Stand Up)

A creature can use the Stand Up maneuver to stand up if they are prone, ending that condition. Alternatively, they can use this maneuver to make a willing adjacent prone creature stand up.

#### Использовать расходуемый предмет (Use Consumable)

Unless otherwise noted in its description, a creature can activate a consumable treasure such as a potion with the Use Consumable maneuver. A creature can use this maneuver to administer a consumable treasure that benefits the user either to themself or to a willing adjacent creature. See [Consumables](#page-328-0) in [Chapter 13: Rewards](#page-327-1).