---
originalTitle: Main Actions
translationStatus: ❌
---
When you take a main action, you most often do so to use a unique ability granted by your class, kit, or a treasure (see [Abilities](#page-83-0) in [Chapter 5: Classes](#page-83-2)). These abilities represent the most unique, flavorful, and impactful things you can do with your main action.

You can also use your main action to help another creature regain Stamina, charge into battle, defend yourself, or make a free strike.

You can convert your main action into a maneuver or a move action, allowing you to take two maneuvers or move actions on your turn.

#### Рывок (Charge)

When a creature takes the Charge main action, they move up to their speed in a straight line, then make a melee free strike (see [Free Strikes](#page-289-1) below) against a target when they end their move. If the creature has an ability with the Charge keyword, they can use that ability against the target instead of a free strike.

A creature can't move through difficult terrain or shift when they charge. They can fly or burrow as part of the Charge main action if they have that movement available to them, but they can't climb or swim while charging unless they can automatically use that movement at full speed.

#### Защита (Defend)

When a creature takes the Defend main action, ability rolls made against them have a double bane until the start of their next turn. Additionally, you have a double edge on tests when called for to resist environmental effects or a creature's traits or abilities. A creature gains no benefit from this action while another creature is taunted by them (see [Conditions](#page-91-2) in [Chapter 5: Classes](#page-83-2)).

#### Свободный удар (Free Strike)

A creature can use this main action to make a free strike (see [Free](#page-289-1) [Strikes](#page-289-1) below). Most of the time, you'll want to use the more impactful main actions granted by your class, kit, or other feature, just as the Director will use the main actions in a creature's stat block, but free strikes are available for when all else fails. For instance, a fury who has no other options for ranged strikes might use the Ranged Weapon Free Strike ability with an improvised weapon when battling a flying foe.

#### Лечение (Heal)

A creature who uses the Heal main action employs medicine or inspiring words to make an adjacent creature feel better and stay in the fight. The target creature can spend a Recovery to regain Stamina, or can make a saving throw against one effect they are suffering that is ended by a saving throw.