---
originalTitle: Free Strikes
translationStatus: ❌
---
Every creature can use a free strike ability as a main action on their turn, though doing so typically isn't the most effective choice. Most of the time, you'll use free strikes when the rules call for it. Specific rules let you use free strikes as part of an action that allows you to also do something else impactful, such as how the Charge main action lets you move and use a melee free strike in one main action (see Charge above).

Many rules and abilities allow heroes to make free strikes when it isn't their turn, such as the tactician's Overwatch ability. As well, all characters can make an opportunity attack free strike.

#### Granted Abilities

Some abilities, such as the tactician's Strike Now or I'll Open and You'll Close abilities, allow another creature to use a signature ability or heroic ability when it isn't their turn. Unless otherwise stated, a creature can always use a free strike instead of a granted signature ability or heroic ability.

#### Opportunity Attacks

Whenever a creature has an enemy adjacent to them and the enemy willingly moves to a space that isn't adjacent to the creature without shifting, the creature can take advantage of that movement to quickly make a melee free strike against the enemy as a free triggered action. This is called an opportunity attack.

If a creature has a bane or double bane on the power roll against the enemy, they can't make an opportunity attack.

#### Standard Free Strikes

Every hero has two standard free strike abilities available to them. Your class might give you additional free strike options, and your kit can improve the standard options (see [Chapter 6: Kits](#page-231-0)).

A melee weapon free strike is a melee strike made with an unarmed strike or an improvised weapon. A ranged weapon free strike is a ranged strike made with an improvised weapon. At the Director's discretion, the damage type of an improvised weapon can change based on the object used. For example, if you use a burning torch as an improvised weapon, it could deal fire damage when used for a free strike.

###### Melee Weapon Free Strike

| **Charge, Melee, Stike, Weapon** |               **Main action** |
| -------------------------------- | ----------------------------: |
| **📏 Melee 1**                   | **🎯 One creature or object** |

**Power Roll + Might or Agility:**

- **≤11:** 2 + M or A damage
- **12-16:** 5 + M or A damage
- **17+:** 7 + M or A damage

###### Ranged Weapon Free Strike

| **Ranged, Stike, Weapon** |               **Main action** |
| ------------------------- | ----------------------------: |
| **📏 Ranged 5**           | **🎯 One creature or object** |

**Power Roll + Might or Agility:**

- **≤11:** 2 + M or A damage
- **12-16:** 4 + M or A damage
- **17+:** 6 + M or A damage