---
originalTitle: Changing Character Options
translationStatus: ❌
---
If you pick a skill, ability, class, or any other option that you end up not liking after using it in the game—even your character's ancestry—you can always freely change that option between game sessions. If you want to change some aspect of your character during a session, ask your Director. If they say it's fine to swap that aspect out for something else, go for it. You shouldn't be stuck with any option that makes the game less fun for you.

If you're changing an option for some reason other than fun, you need to follow the usual rules for changing that option. For example, you might want to swap a kit out because you think the next adventure is going to require you to have better distance with weapon strikes, doing so during a respite as talked about in Chapter 6: Kits. If no rule for swapping out an option exists, such as wanting to change a signature ability granted by your class because you think a different damage type would be more helpful against undead in an upcoming encounter, talk to your Director.

#### Optional Rule: Respite Ability Changes

An optional rule the Director can include in your game is to allow heroes to change any number of signature and heroic abilities granted by their class as a respite activity (see Respite in Chapter 1: The Basics). This allows heroes to prepare for upcoming encounters and try new builds, but the Director and the players should all be comfortable with constantly juggling and learning new abilities.