---
status: false
dg-publish: true
---

The "Target" entry of an ability, represented by this symbol x, notes the number of creatures, objects, or both who can be targeted by that ability. You can always affect fewer targets than the number indicated by this entry.

##### Существо (Creature)

If an ability targets one or more creatures, it can affect creatures within the ability's distance or area. You aren't an eligible creature target for your own abilities unless those abilities also have "self" as a target (see below), or unless the ability indicates otherwise.

##### Объект (Object)

If an ability targets one or more objects, it can affect any object within the ability's distance or area. Unless otherwise noted, objects have poison immunity all and psychic immunity all. [(Damage](#page-291-1) in [Chapter 10: Combat](#page-288-0) has information on damage immunity.)

When an ability can target creatures and objects, the ability can damage objects. However, unless otherwise noted (as with the talent's Minor Telekinesis ability) or if the Director allows it, objects are immune to an ability's other effects. If an ability forces an object to make a test, the object automatically gets a tier 1 result on the test.

##### Враг (Enemy)

If an ability targets one or more enemies, it can affect only creatures who are hostile to the creature using the ability. Typically, you decide who counts as an enemy for the purpose of using your hero's abilities, though the Director has the final say.

##### Союзник (Ally)

If an ability targets one or more allies, it can affect only willing creatures who are friendly to the creature using the ability. Typically, you and any other player whose character you target with an ability decide who counts as an ally, though the Director has the final say.

You aren't an eligible target for your own abilities that target allies unless those abilities also have "self" as a target, or unless the ability indicates otherwise.

##### Вы сами / Вы (Self)

If an ability targets "self," it can affect only the creature using the ability. Your own abilities can affect you only if they target "self."

##### Каждая Цель (Each Target)

If an area ability doesn't provide a number of targets but instead says it applies to each creature, object, enemy, or ally in the area, then all eligible targets for the ability are affected.

<!-- -->
> **Telling Friend From Foe**
>
> There might be times when a foe disguises or obscures themself so that they're temporarily seen as an ally—or at least not seen as an enemy. Until the effect ends, such a creature can't be targeted by abilities that would usually target them by targeting enemies. Fear not, though. All classes have access to at least one ability that targets creatures, whether friend or foe.
