---
originalTitle: Sample Negotiation
translationStatus: ❌
---
After killing the true lord of Bedegar, the tyrannical Lord Saxton took over the barony's capital, and is presently gathering forces to march on the rest of Bedegar's settlements. The heroes recently saved Edmund, the true heir to Bedegar's throne, and are now attempting to build an army that can stand against Saxton and defeat the tyrant.

The heroes are engaging in a negotiation with Zola Honeycut, the human guildmaster of the Clock—a thieves' guild whose headquarters is located in Bedegar's capital. The guild openly opposed Saxton when he first seized power, but the tyrant was quick to crack down on all known members of the Clock, forcing them into hiding or hanging them as a warning to others. The heroes' hope is that they can convince Zola to support their armed resistance.

#### Zola's Negotiation Stats

Zola is neutral toward the heroes when the negotiation begins. She knows them only by reputation, though she understands that they too believe Saxton is a tyrant who must be stopped. However, standing up to that tyrant has cost her people dearly, and she's not sure she's ready to rejoin the fight. One wrong move could spell the end of the Clock!

<!-- -->
> **Zola Honeycut Negotiation Stats**
>
> - **Interest: 2**
> - **Patience: 4**
> - **Impression: 3**
>
> ###### Motivations
>
> **Benevolence:** Zola's name, Honeycut, comes from the fact that she always gives her fellow thieves a bigger cut than her own on jobs.
>
> **Protection:** The members of the Clock are the only family Zola's ever known. The guild's motto is "The Clock is always ticking," because they're always planning the next job and their ever-richer future. Zola doesn't want to be the guild's last master.
>
> ###### Pitfall
>
> **Higher Authority:** Zola has no interest in serving anyone other than herself, and she scoffs at the suggestion of taking orders.
>
> **Revelry:** Zola is all business and has no time for frivolity, especially while living under Saxton's threat.

#### Roleplaying Zola

Zola is glad that people are finally opposing Lord Saxton, but is angry that no one rose up with the Clock months ago when the tyrant first staged his coup. She's passionate about protecting her people, quick to call out dangerous plans in arguments she doesn't like, and fast to praise statements she agrees with. She's not afraid to speak her mind to the heroes, knowing that they share her desire to see Saxton gone. She's just not sure she can risk more of her found family in the current fight.

#### Negotiation in Action

Here's how the negotiation with Zola might play out.

**Director (Djordi):** *The windows are boarded up, allowing no light to enter the seemingly abandoned Goat's Eye tavern. The whole place smells of charred wood, evidence of the fire that burned most of the building's interior three years ago. As the door shuts behind you, light from a hooded lantern on the opposite side of the tavern suddenly fills the room. Amid the blackened walls and pillars, you note where six burly ruffians flank your group on both sides. The human holding the lantern smiles. "Welcome. I'm Zola. Willoughby told me you were coming. Have a seat." She motions to a few crates arranged in a circle around a wide barrel.*

**James (playing Korvo, a shadow):** *I have a seat and say, "Korvo at your service, Ms. Honeycut. And these here are the finest companions a polder could ask for: Linn, Jorn, and Val."*

**Director:** *Zola nods to each of you in turn, then says, "You'll excuse me if I dispense with more pleasantries. These days, no place is safe for the Clock. We keep moving. So tell me, what are you here for?"*

**Alyssa (playing Jorn, a tactician):** *"We're building an army to take down Saxton once and for all."*

In this scenario, all the heroes have a Renown of 2 except for Jorn, who has a Renown of 3 and is therefore famous to Zola.

**Director:** *Zola gives a mirthless chuckle as she shakes her head. "Oh is that all? I have to tell you, I don't think the four of you stand much of a chance. Unless you're hiding a legion or two of dwarves in your pockets. Yes, you have Jorn the Mighty with you, but you'll need more than one famous warrior to win the day."*

**Alyssa:** *Ah! So she has heard of me at least! Thanks, Renown.*

**Grace (playing Val, a conduit):** *"We don't. But we do have Lord Edmund—the true heir to the Bedegar throne."*

**Director:** *Zola nods, impressed. "I'm glad the boy is safe, but that's all he is—a boy, not an army."*

**Matt (playing Linn, a talent):** *"He's a boy people will rally around. We have no army, but that's why we're here. We're planning on changing that. Can you spare any soldiers for our cause?"*

The negotiation officially starts. The heroes have stated what they want from Zola. The Director begins by prompting them to make an argument.

**Director:** *Zola leans back on her crate. "There it is. The Clock has sacrificed much against Saxton. Why should we risk more to help? No one was here to help us months ago when we stood up to tyranny."*

**Alyssa:** *I nod along as Zola speaks, listening before I say, "We didn't hear of your struggle until after Saxton had already hanged many of your brave people. We're here now. How can we help?"*

Before making an argument, Alyssa is attempting to learn what Zola's motivations are by simply asking. The Director decides to reveal one of Zola's motivations: protection.

**Director:** *"If I were to make a deal with you, and that's a big 'if,' I'd need assurances that you can end this. Proof would be even better. The protection of my people is my top priority. We can earn freedom from Saxton once we regain our strength."*

**James:** *Aha! I got this, folks. I stand atop my crate and say, "Well, we can surely offer that, Ms. Honeycut. We have convinced Lord Edmund to*

*grant amnesty to any who swear to serve him." I'd like to roll a Presence test to convince her.*

**Director:** *Hold it there, champ. Zola's eyes narrow as you speak, and she holds up a hand to cut you off. "I will not swear to serve any ruler, no matter how benevolent. I'll consider being a partner, but even that outlook is grim if you tell me again that I need to bend the knee."*

Korvo inadvertently made an argument using a pitfall by appealing to a higher authority. The Director notes that Zola's interest drops to 1 and her patience drops to 3. Zola gave a pretty firm "No" response here, which is what an NPC with an interest of 1 would say. However, the Director phrased Zola's response in such a way that the heroes know they can keep making arguments if they wish, since her patience hasn't run out.

**James:** *Sorry! I thought that'd work. Seems like higher authority is a pitfall for her*.

**Grace:** *Let's try to avoid any others. Val says, "We're sorry, Zola. We don't want to do anything else to offend you." I'd like to make an Intuition test and use my Read Person skill to gauge her reaction and try to discern any other pitfalls.*

**Director:** *Cool. Hard difficulty.*

**Grace:** *I got a 17! Success.*

**Director:** *Zola sits back, chuckling. "There's two things I can't stand anyone telling me to kiss a ring and merry fools who would rather go drinking than fight for their freedom. Luckily, you're not the latter." You can tell that revelry also won't go over well with Zola.*

The heroes now know both of Zola's pitfalls: higher authority and revelry.

**Matt:** *Linn is going to say, "We're recruiting more than just the Clock. We have a good chance of recruiting the elves of the wode and the orcs of Forest Rend, and we're already training the people of Gravesford to put up a fight. If we strike before Saxton can fully build his forces, we all stand a better chance of survival. If you don't stand with us, Saxton will still come for you. He's already coming for you. The Clock stands less of a chance alone."*

**Director:** *I think that's a Reason test, since you're using logic to point out that you have a better chance together than on your own. It's easy too, since you're appealing to one of her motivations.*

**Matt:** *Great! Can I use Lead here, since I'm demonstrating our ability to bring people together?*

**Director:** *I'll allow it.*

**Matt:** *That's a 14!*

Because Linn appealed to a motivation, Zola's interest increases to 2, and her patience drops to 2. The Director gives a "No, but..." response based on Zola's interest. At this point, the heroes haven't promised anything, so she offers them something for free.

**Director:** *Zola nods along as you speak. "You're correct, but I'm not sure I can spare the people. I'll tell you what I can do. I have spies watching Saxton still. I can give you information about his troops' movements. Will that suffice?"*

The Director makes it clear in Zola's response that the negotiation can still continue if that's what the players want.

**Alyssa:** *I don't think so, right?*

**James:** *No. We need an army.*

**Matt:** *Yeah, let's push it.*

**Grace:** *Agreed.*

**Alyssa:** *I wonder if we can try to figure out another one of her motivations.*

**James:** *Is there anything I know about Zola's reputation? I have the Criminal Underworld skill.*

**Director:** *Make a Reason test.*

**James:** *That's an 18! Success!*

**Director:** *Korvo would know that Zola got the name Honeycut because she's generous with the guild's earnings. She gives all her fellow thieves a nice cut of every job.*

Korvo's success has revealed Zola's benevolence motivation.

**James:** *Brilliant! I think I probably would've shared that with the group before this.*

**Director:** *Yeah, that makes sense.*

**Alyssa:** *Great. Jorn will say, "It would be worthwhile in other ways for your crew if you joined our side."*

**Director:** *Zola's interest is piqued. "What makes you say that?"*

**Alyssa:** *"Even before his coup, Saxton had a considerable amount of wealth. If he's deposed, those riches need to go somewhere. The Clock will get a cut—a honey of a cut, you might say. Edmund has also promised to share his family's fortune with any who stand with him against Saxton—no oath of fealty necessary. After the young lord reclaims the throne, that is."*

**Director:** *You're appealing to one of her motivations, so make a Presence test.*

**Alyssa:** *Can I use my Persuade skill too?*

**Director:** *Absolutely. And you gain an edge because you're famous to her.*

**Alyssa:** *I needed that edge. I got a 12!*

Because Jorn appealed to a motivation, Zola's interest increases to 3, and her patience is reduced to 1. The Director gives a "Yes, but..." response while making it clear that the negotiation can still continue.

**Director:** *Zola contemplates this for a moment. She nods, "I'm starting to see the benefits. I think I can spare some folks to help you, but you have to help them first. See, my best warriors are locked up in Bedegar Keep. They're supposed to be hanged in two days. If you free them, I'll see to it they stand with you against Saxton. We were making a plan to free them ourselves but could frankly use the help."*

**Grace:** *We could push the Clock to do it themselves, but I can't see Val turning her back on people in need.*

**James:** *Hear, hear. I'm done pushing my luck on this one.*

**Matt:** *It'll mean less time to recruit the other troops, so we'd better work quickly.*

**Alyssa:** *Then we're in agreement. I offer a handshake to Zola. "You've got yourself a deal."*

The heroes could have pushed for a better deal, but they're satisfied with the offer from Zola, so they accept her terms. The negotiation ends.
